- Hello, YouTube.
Hello, Chris.
- Hey, Michael.
- Hey, great to have you here on the live stream for now.
And those of you watching,
please put comments and thoughts out into the live chat.
And if you're watching later, yeah, well, thanks for watching.
So let's kick this off, Chris.
Chris, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
- Yeah, thanks for having me.
Happy to be here.
- Yeah, I'm happy to have you here.
It's gonna be a lot of fun.
we're gonna talk a lot of data engineering things,
try to loop that back to the more traditional
software development side.
You have a really cool open source project
and startup in Prefect.
And we're both gonna talk about the product
as well as making an open source successful business model,
which is really cool.
I'm very into that and that's very important to me.
And I love to highlight cases of people doing that well.
It looks like you all are.
- Oh, excellent, yeah.
It's a, as we'll see as we get into it,
it's a core part of how we view the world.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
Before we get to all that though,
let's start with your story.
How'd you get into programming and Python?
- Hoo, so I think like a lot of,
so I was born in the '80s,
so like a lot of people in my generation, right,
we got into HTML and building websites
on AngelFire and Geocities.
So, you know, from the early days,
I was into playing around with computers.
I would say didn't really get into Python
until probably high school is when I first started dabbling.
And it was really just, I was working at a bank.
I was like trying to automate some small things
and to be clear, I did not get very far.
It was a mildly successful undertaking.
And then college kind of similar story.
Like it was one of those things that I just would,
I had a couple of books, I would play around with it.
It was always just a fun activity for me,
but I never had any serious focus on it.
I think in college, when I started to get into
really econometrics,
is when I started to play more seriously
and start to try to understand some of the
performance implications of what I was doing
and things like that.
And then taking kind of the next level in grad school,
a friend of mine and myself
thought that we were smart enough
to build some machine learning models for trading.
And we did all of that in combination of Python
and R, surprise.
- Okay, that's amazing, yeah.
- We lost some money, but it was a great lesson
in understanding data and exactly what you're doing.
And genuinely, so I was studying pure math in grad school
and that experiment and kind of the actual
like visceral outcome of it is what really got me
into studying machine learning more deeply.
'Cause I was like, wait a second,
there's something interesting here.
And so started to dig in more.
That must have been a really cool experience.
Even if you did lose money.
- It's important to put some skin in the game.
- Exactly, right?
Like it's a hobby until you start to take it seriously
and try to get real outcomes.
Because there's always these layers or these levels, right?
Like I'm going to learn this thing
and poke around and kind of get it to work.
Or I'm gonna learn this thing so that it actually works.
Or I'm gonna learn this thing so I can explain it
When there's three ways, they all kind of do the same thing.
I can explain when to choose which one, right?
And the more seriously you take it
and the more is on the line,
the more you kind of, you get that real understanding of it.
- I mean, just, I know that this is a little off of Python,
but I think that resonates with me so much
on every dimension when it comes to learning something.
You have to, it's not a passive activity.
You have to engage with it.
And it's, in my opinion, the only way to learn anything,
math, programming, business, whatever.
- Totally agree.
Speaking of math, you have a math background, right?
- I do, proudly so.
- Yeah, awesome.
So do I.
I just last episode spoke with the SymPy,
S-Y-M-Py guys about doing symbolic math with Python.
And that was pretty fascinating stuff.
Have you played with any of the symbolic stuff?
- I have played with it, yeah.
I had no serious project,
like genuinely just playing around with it
to see kind of what it's capable of, it is really cool.
- Yeah.
- I will definitely, I will go look up that episode, yeah.
- Awesome.
What kind of math did you study?
- So I started my PhD program
focusing on arithmetic geometry,
which for people out there,
it's one of the more abstract forms of math.
I still really like that stuff a lot, honestly,
but what I found was that--
- Is that like manifolds and stuff like that?
- Not quite, it's a little bit,
So they use a lot of the same,
a lot of their arguments are kind of by analogy
with things like manifolds,
but you're studying geometric structures
that are way more discrete than a manifold.
And so like the spectrum of prime numbers on the integers
is like a geometric object
for the purposes of arithmetic geometry.
And, you know, hard to visualize,
but it just turns out a lot of the formal definitions
geometry have these really deep analogs and arithmetic and you can actually
learn a lot and the most famous example of this that I think a lot of people
will probably be familiar with this Fermat's last theorem. Yeah that's right.
So that was all using those techniques yeah that's right. Exactly. So they're
really heavy-duty to solve very simple two-state problems. Yeah there's there's
a really good book about Fermat's last theorem by this guy named... seems like a
a mole or something like that.
Maybe I'll find and put the show notes.
Just absolutely fascinating book.
Really, and it just talks about the history.
Yeah, yeah, it really talks about the struggle
that guy who solved it went through.
Cool, well, how about now?
You're at Prefect, right?
What do you do day to day?
- Oh, so, oh, actually, I didn't finish
where I went with grad school,
which is relevant to how kind of I got to Prefect,
which I ended up going into optimization theory,
still on the pure side, so still very much proof-based,
but that was right when machine learning
was becoming a thing, right after I had done
this experiment with my friend and started getting into it.
And so that's kind of how I started
to head more towards industry.
And for me, I consider myself a problem solver.
And so I was always very good at solving problems,
but I'll admit I wasn't always the best
at maybe like justifying a grant proposal
or something like that.
And so that's kind of when I started
to think more about industry
and started doing some consulting to test the waters.
And so anyways, long story short, got into data,
got into machine learning,
got into tooling for machine learning,
got into backend engineering for hosting the tooling,
et cetera, et cetera.
And then met with Jeremiah, who's the CEO of Prefect.
- Just stucks you in, right?
- Exactly, it's a black hole.
- Yeah, cool.
And so you started out working at banks doing
sort of homegrown data engineering, right?
Is that maybe a good way to describe it?
- Homegrown a lot of things, yes.
So homegrown data engineering, one of them,
homegrown model building was another big, big thing,
homegrown data governance at one point,
homegrown data platform.
And actually the data platform is particularly interesting
because looking back, it kind of felt like a microcosm
of a lot of the tool explosion we've seen lately,
where the platform we were building was for data scientists
to deploy their model to and connect it up to data sources
that we would keep up to date
'cause that's where the data engineering comes in
and then business analysts are the actual downstream users.
And they would interact with these models through an API
that we would build for them on top of the models,
but it was still in Python.
So they would actually have to write Python,
which was really interesting.
So we got to teach them classes on it.
- That is interesting.
Yeah, yeah.
I've seen non-developer types do that before.
I've seen it in like a real time stock trading,
you know, like brokerages and hedge funds.
- Right.
- And yeah, it's like, you're gonna learn Python
because you need to talk to the tool.
I've also seen people learn SQL
who have no business knowing SQL otherwise,
but for sort of a similar reasons.
- Yeah, yeah.
And SQL is a little bit more approachable, I think, yeah.
But Python is just a little,
it's easier to kind of shoot yourself in the foot with Python
I think if you don't really know Python.
- Well, it's just more open-ended, right?
- Yeah.
It's way more open-ended.
Cool.
All right, so you talk a lot about negative engineering concepts
and how you've structured Prefect to help alleviate, eliminate,
solve, prevent some of those problems.
So maybe we should start the conversation in sort of twofold.
Maybe give us a quick overview of what you might call data engineering,
and then what are these negative engineering things that
live in that space?
So yeah, and I think these two concepts are related,
but I think negative engineering is definitely more general.
So let me start with negative engineering
and then we'll kind of drill in.
So negative engineering, we've got a blog post
that we published, I think three years ago at this point,
on negative engineering.
Encourage anyone who's interested, go read it.
I think since we have released that blog post,
we have refined kind of our own understanding
and thinking about this.
And one thing that I kind of noticed
is negative engineering got this sentiment,
It's just anything I don't really like to do.
And that's not actually--
Those are negative engineering, I'll tell you what.
Got nothing done in those meetings.
Exactly. And like, "Eh, I don't think so."
And so, yeah, to be really precise
with the way we think about this, positive engineering
is code or interacting
with software systems that you do
explicitly to achieve an outcome.
So, I
run a SQL query
to populate my
dashboard or something like that.
very concrete connection to some sort of outcome.
And then negative engineering are code you write,
systems you interact with that ensure those outcomes.
I in, so like insurance.
And so defensive code is a great example
of negative engineering.
It's something that you're writing.
When you're writing those try accepts and everything,
you're really hedging against anticipated failure modes
that you're trying to account for right now.
- The data was always well formed.
would never crash. If the servers was always up, it would never crash.
Exactly.
You get the reports, the sentry messages or whatever.
Exactly. And so observability, I think, complete negative engineering.
Observability is not something you do for its own sake.
You do it in anticipation of an unknown future failure mode.
It's a pretty negative outcome.
You want to avoid.
Exactly. Yeah, failure is like the first class citizen here, right?
something failed and you want to figure out what happens so that you can fix it,
to really tie it to insurance even more directly,
all of the things we're talking about are situations where a small error has a
disproportionately large negative impact on an outcome.
So scheduling is an example here. If you have Cron running on a server,
running a Python script, and something you do, maybe you load just
far too much data in your script and the machine crashes out of memory.
You don't get an alert.
You don't get--
You wake up the next morning and 30 jobs have not run.
You don't know why.
You have to figure out why.
By the time you figure it out, you're five hours deep.
Maybe not that long, but two hours deep.
And using a service or a system--
We'll talk about the details.
Like Prefect or some other type of observability negative engineering tool,
you would potentially get a text alert.
Or at a minimum, you would wake up and immediately see,
"Oh, that happened at 1 a.m.
I know what happened, let me just fix it really quickly.
And you're back up to speed.
- Interesting.
- Yeah.
- Frank on the audience says,
"Defensive programming, that means good handling
on exceptions and so forth."
And I think that's interesting, Frank.
I think I do agree, but it sounds to me, Chris,
like you're even talking like way broader.
Like, do you, if you're writing an API,
do you have to even think about hosting that
or making sure that it's scaled out correct?
or like, you know, observability as tracking error reporting
in the broad sense of,
sure, you should be doing the small defensive programming,
but also to deal with these negative engineering problems.
But like, there's whole businesses
around dealing with segments of it.
- Exactly, exactly.
And I think putting a word to it,
as simple as it may seem,
really helps, especially for building a company
and a product, like refine and target.
Like what are the features that are important to us
and which ones are not important, at least at this time.
And especially in orchestration and data engineering,
I mean, it's very tempting to build cool stuff
'cause there's lots of cool stuff you can build,
but are you guaranteeing an outcome?
Are you insuring against some outcome?
Like, are you sure you know exactly
what you're providing here when you build that cool thing?
- Right.
So you guys use, you try to identify some of these areas
that have negative engineering
that data engineers run into,
and you're like, how do we build a framework
such that they don't have to worry about or think about that.
- Exactly, exactly.
And so for data engineering,
I think of this as it's any software engineering that you do
that either moves data, cleans data, or prepares data,
either for another person to ingest
or maybe another system to ingest,
but it's all the activities surrounding that.
And I think for, I know maybe not everyone listening
in the data space specifically,
So just as the easiest example,
we have a production database running behind some web server,
some API, and you want to do analytics on it.
Well, maybe you're using Postgres,
not the best analytics database.
And also you don't want to actually write a query
that takes down the database.
So what do you do?
You take the data out, you put it into BigQuery
or Snowflake or somewhere else,
you run your analytics over there.
- Right, you probably totally change the schemas
because you want to, in a relational database,
somewhat in a document database, maybe a little less,
but definitely in a relational database,
your job is third normal form.
Like how do I not have any data that repeats?
I'll have a 10 way join rather than have something repeat.
But when you wanna do reporting, those joins are killers.
You just want like, I wanna do a straight query
where this column is that and just like wreck,
wreck the normalization for performance reasons, right?
You can ask the questions in very interesting ways,
like many ways in simple queries
rather than being a SQL master.
- Exactly, exactly.
And keeping that system running,
keeping the data fresh, keeping the schemas in sync,
that's a lot of work actually.
And that's one of the classic examples of data engineering.
There's a lot of other stuff too, but that's the classic.
- Yeah, one of the things I see stand out,
I don't want to get the API right away,
but I just see like coming out of the API
that you all built is there's like retries,
like right front and center, like here's a task
and I want it to retry with this plan, right?
of this number of times, there's probably like a back off story.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, exactly.
And that's another great example of small error, the tiniest network
blip, your Kubernetes, I don't know, I've seen cube DNS sometimes just
doesn't do what it's supposed to do.
Somebody was flipping over the load balancer and you hit it at just the
wrong time and there it goes, right?
Yeah, exactly.
And now next thing, you know, I mean, a lot of different things can
happen depending on the script you wrote.
Maybe you did a lot of good defensive programming yourself and the try
I accept was a little bit too much.
And so your next task actually runs
despite the first one failing.
And maybe it passes the exception downstream.
And now you have this cascade of errors
that you have no idea what they mean.
And another thing with negative engineering
is dependency management, making sure that if this fails,
things that depend on it do not run
unless they're configured to run only on failure.
- Yeah, worst case scenario, they say,
"Yes, this is a good investment, you should buy it."
Or, "Yes, this is a good decision."
And they like, it's...
- Exactly, exactly.
- Zero, 'cause the task failed to find the price.
So of course you should buy it.
- Exactly, you wanna know that it happened
and make sure that the effect,
the blast radius is minimized.
And that's really what it's all about.
And like retry is a perfect example
of just one of those small things
that can cascade in weird, unexpected ways.
- Yeah, what are some of the other areas of crufter
of these problems you see in data engineering?
- Logging is a big one.
Just having a place where you can see
some centralized set of important logs.
- The more you use like Kubernetes
more like you kind of micro-service it out, the harder it is to know what's going on in
the logging story.
Well, right. And the definition we work with in the modern data stack are data tools that
deliver their feature over an API. And so if you think about that, you're dealing with
inherently this giant micro-service system that you want to coordinate and see in some
centralized place in some meaningful way. And collaboration, versioning, those are all
other things, caching, so just configurable like storage locations for things. And then maybe the
biggest one that is both simple, but I see people building this internally all the time,
which is just exposing an API, a parameterized API for just triggering some type of job.
Next thing you know, it needs to be available, you know, throughout your whole network,
it needs to be off, it needs to be monitored and tracked and audited.
Maybe versioned.
- Yeah. - Maybe version, exactly.
- Oh my gosh. - Exactly.
- Yeah. - And it just gets,
all of a sudden you're like,
okay, I'm building an entire system and my job is not this.
- Yeah, it's one of those things that seems so simple.
Like, I would love it if you would just really help us out,
you know, Michael here,
if you could just give me a quick little API
that we could just call that API.
I mean, look, I'll just, here's the JSON,
it's like that big.
And if I could just call it, boy, things would just unlock.
And then it's like a holiday and it's not working
now I'm dealing with like, how did I get this job?
Right?
- Right, right.
- Yeah.
- And the second someone says just anything,
you're like, oh, I'm on edge.
What do you mean?
Are you sure?
- Exactly.
I don't want it.
Give it to someone else.
Let's give it to someone else.
Awesome.
All right.
Well, you know, maybe that's a good time
to talk a little bit more in detail about Prefect.
So you all have on the GitHub page,
if I track it down,
You've got an interesting way to discuss it.
It says, "Prefect is the new workflow management system
"designed for modern infrastructure
"and powered by the open source Prefect Core.
"Users organize tasks into flows
"and Prefect takes care of the rest."
So there's a lot of stuff here
that I thought might be fun to dive into.
So new workflow management system
as opposed to what was there before.
So maybe we could sort of take this apart a bit.
- Yeah, so we have--
- What do you mean by new workflow?
- We have--
- I know you also have a new new one coming as well, right?
- Yeah, yeah, we have new new.
You always gotta keep rebuilding.
We have a great post on at least part of this
that I encourage you to go check out
called the History of Dataflow Automation
that really will get, our head of product wrote it,
and it's just a great kind of tour through the history.
But so for us, a lot of the different workflows,
so workflow management, right?
you have some set of business logic tasks
that are strung together with some dependency.
It could be a lot of conditionals or something like that.
You wanna run it usually on a schedule,
but sometimes ad hoc or maybe event-based.
And there's a lot of different systems
for managing these quote unquote workflows.
Many of them, I guess one way to think about it
is they're cut by context.
What context are you operating in?
Is this like a data context or like Zapier, for example,
is very consumer facing.
- If you think about Zapier
with all these different automations,
all these triggers, and then all these actions,
it's just like, the plumbing of that must be insane.
- Exactly, and that's a workflow, it's totally valid.
And their user persona is a no-code person,
also totally valid.
And so for us, new workflow management system
means kind of the next generation
after a lot of the Hadoop tooling.
So Hadoop, as you can kind of see in this post too,
Hadoop caused an explosion of just really cool new tools.
And Airflow, Luigi, Azkaban,
I feel like there's another one, maybe Uzi,
a lot of these kind of came out of that air
to manage these distributed jobs.
And so they're kind of like,
I think of them as like distributed state-based cron.
You can put them on a well-defined schedule.
They manage the, so it's actual dependency management,
which Cron does not do.
And they can do it kind of across multiple computers,
which is really convenient.
And so for us-- - In a real simple way,
it's like kind of the Cron,
it is kind of like Cron, right?
Like just look here for data
and then just run this process against it.
But it's so much more with the dependencies
and then pass it to here.
And then, yeah, right, it's just the flow of it.
You'd be insane to try that with just timing.
Exactly, exactly.
And so, new for us can mean a lot of different things,
but I'll just say since we just talked about it,
it's really taking an approach of scheduling is important,
and alerting on failures of scheduling is important,
but we're like expanding the vision there.
And it's much more about this negative engineering,
which includes observability,
configuration management, event-driven work,
not just scheduled work.
Scale is really important because data scientists
have a lot of the same needs as data engineers,
Those tools were not meant for data scientists.
- Right.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, you were talking, I heard you speak about
wanting to run a bunch of experiments,
like hundreds of thousands of experiments
as a data scientist.
And some of the other tools would talk about
running operations in tens per minute
or tens, something like that.
And you're like, I need something that does it
in tens or hundreds per second.
Yeah, I mean, anything that allows you to just explore a search space of hyperparameters
and do so in a way that is easy to quickly find some subset of those parameters
and see whether they succeeded or failed, you can define that criteria.
You can raise an exception, for example, if some output just violates some assumption you have,
and then that way it shows up as red, it's like you're not going to look at that.
And managing an interface to the infrastructure
is another big part of this.
So I guess maybe I'm jumping ahead,
but the next part is design for modern infrastructure.
And I think modern infrastructure
can mean a lot of different things.
For us, it means first off that there's
a diverse array of infrastructure people use.
And so creating a system that can plug and play
with a lot of them.
So we support, for example, some of the more popular ways
of deploying Prefect Flows are in Kubernetes.
and in Fargate, so kind of like a serverless style model.
Also, you can do it on your local machine.
And so just having that kind of unified interface
to interact with all these things is one aspect of modern.
Another is that local development
to cloud development story that's really important.
You want to make sure that these are as close as possible
to each other so that you can debug things locally
and things like that.
And so that's another aspect is we try really hard and 2.0 gets this way better than 1.0
for the record of mirroring what code is exactly running, you know, in prod versus your local.
Something that always makes me nervous when I hear people talking about, oh, this is cloud
native and you can just, just, there's like 50 different services in this particular cloud.
And so why don't you just leverage like nine or 10 of them?
And I just always think, you know, well, what is the development going to feel like for
You know, how, if I'm on a spotty internet connection or something like that,
is it just inaccessible to work on?
Do I have to just completely sort of live in this cloud world?
And, it sounds like there's, a more sort of a local version that you
can try and work with as well here.
Yeah.
And one of the things that we achieved with 2.0 is we refactored kind of where
orchestration, different aspects of orchestration takes place.
And so all of the true orchestration logic that we want to own runs behind an API.
And the reason that I'm saying, I'm like emphasizing that is in 1.0, that's not 100% true.
And so when you run a workflow locally, it's talking to an API, maybe it's your self-hosted
open source API.
So it's maybe responding slightly differently.
But the code path running on your machine and its requirements and everything else is
exactly the same as what's going to run in production.
and just might talk to a different URL.
- Sure.
Okay, yeah, and I guess it's,
let me stick on this,
we were halfway through your sentence,
and then I do wanna talk more about the cloud and stuff.
No, but, so,
powered by the open source Preflex core workflow engine.
All right, so, tell us about that.
- So, we, you know, we've, since day one,
always wanted to put as much open source as is reasonable.
And one of the ways that we think about
what we put in the open source,
and then I'll tell you what this workflow engine is,
are what are the things that we are maximally leveraged
to support extensions of and new configurations of?
And our core workflow engine
is definitely one of those things.
We're the experts in it.
And that engine is the thing that manages, for example,
that a downstream dependency can't run
if it's upstream failed or maybe just hasn't completed yet.
The caching logic is a part of that workflow engine,
the triggering logic for the workflow,
the scheduling of the workflow,
all of that stuff's open source.
- That's the UI visibility
towards tracking bit as well, right?
- 100%, yep, that is all open source
and we build it as a part.
So we actually have a dedicated front end team
and we build the UI and package it up
in the packages of prebuilt website.
- Yeah, I'm not sure where I would,
oh, here we go, I found it.
- Oh, there we go, that's the G.co, yeah.
- Yeah, so I mean, this UI to see what's working,
what's not working, how often is it succeeded,
you know, what's succeeded, what's failing,
what jobs are unhealthy, for example,
like that's all negative engineering, right?
Your job wasn't to start out
to build this observability web front end.
your job was to get the data in and then get it
to the database and start doing it for, you know,
analysis or whatever.
- Exactly.
- Predictions, but here you are,
in view going after it, right?
Or whatever it is.
- No, it is viewed.
Good call, good call.
- Right on.
- Yeah.
And so, and one of the ways I think about this dashboard view
is it gives you this landing page to,
you have some mental model of your expectations.
You can check quickly if they are violated here.
And then if so, dig in further, click around.
And if not, you know, we are more than happy when people exit out of the UI and are like,
we're moving on.
It's like, perfect, we did our job then.
Yeah, that's good.
But yeah, that's pretty neat.
So that's part of the core engine.
Yep, 100%.
And so things like auth, for example, are not part of that.
So in that case, like, there's a lot of ways auth can get extended, there's a lot of different
ways that we might implement it. And that's not exactly right. Our, our, our competitive
advantage supporting different ways that you might deploy off securely. And so it's like,
Nope, that's our platform feature, we can do it in the way we know, know best, and can
do it securely.
Sure. And so it's worth pointing out, I suppose, that the way it works is, there's the open
source engine, and then there's the Python API. And then you talked about different ways
is to run it and to host it, right?
So one way to host it is to just use your cloud, right?
You've got the Preflect cloud
where it just runs with all these things.
There's others I could run it.
I could self host that core workflow engine
or just run it on my laptop or whatever.
- So it's a little bit more complicated than that actually.
- All right, no it's all good.
- So Jeremiah and I both come from like finance world.
And so a lot of our first kind of early design partners
and advisors come from that world.
And one of the challenges one of our advisors gave us
was very genuinely, I don't want to learn your tech stack
so that I can host it within my tech stack.
And there's no way I'm ever gonna give you my code or data
because it's highly proprietary.
That's your problem.
And we're like, okay, well, that sounds impossible, right?
- I think companies are already so freaked out
about losing the data without even meaningfully
giving it to someone else, right?
They're already like, well, we might lose this.
We might, you know, might be ransomware.
There might be other things, right?
And so the idea of just handing it over
does seem probably pretty far out there for a lot of them.
- Exactly, and so what we designed after a long time,
we really like thought about it,
but we did this back in 2018, maybe beginning of,
Yeah, 2018.
We came up with a model where orchestration
takes place over an API.
And if you really think about it,
think of other orchestrators.
Cron, Kubernetes is a container orchestrator.
They operate on metadata.
They operate on container registry locations and specs
for how you expect it to run.
And once we had that insight, we designed the system
so that the cloud-hosted API that we run
operates purely in metadata, result locations, flow names,
flow versions, things like that. And then you run an open source agent anywhere that
you want, and it operates on a pure outbound pull-in model. So all of our features are
based on the agent pulling and then your workflow also potentially doing some communication.
And because of that, you know, there's still this outbound connection you have to think
about, you still have to trust us with your some of your parameters. And you know, there's
definitely still some security surface area that we have to think about. But we do not
hosts your data, and we do not have access to your execution.
And that unlocked this problem for us.
And so as long as we have enough agents that
can be deployed in lots of different places,
then we can deliver a lot of value.
Yeah, that's pretty excellent.
So if you want to host it in AWS or Kubernetes or Linode
or wherever, that's up to you, huh?
Exactly, 100% up to you.
Is there a way where I could do it somewhat offline?
Like for example, with the open source core engine,
does that still go back to you guys
or is that sort of local?
- No, that's totally local
and it's designed with the same hybrid approach.
You could have your platform team,
maybe your DevOps team hosting the API for you
and the database behind it.
And then you as the data team can manage your agents
and just as long as you have access to the API,
you can set it up the exact same way internally if you want.
And we've seen places do that for sure.
- Sure.
Yeah, that's really neat.
Let's maybe talk through a quick example of using it.
Oh, hold on.
Well, the last part of that sentence,
which is users organize tasks into flows.
And so let's look at a quick example maybe
of the code that you might do here.
Let's see.
Sure, here, this is probably decent.
It's always tricky to talk about code on audio formats,
but just give us a sense of what does it look like
to write code for Prefect?
- Yeah, so one of our design principles, right?
We talked a little while ago
about this negative engineering problem.
It kind of emerges and eventually you're doing
all those activities that you didn't care about.
And kind of in an interesting way,
we try to mirror that with the way Prefect gets adopted.
So I love to call it incremental adoption.
I want the complexity of what you're trying to achieve
and the amount of code you have to write to scale,
I mean, ideally like sub-linearly or something,
but you know, scale together.
And so an example you have here,
our 2.0 takes this way further,
but we operate on this decorator model.
So just really simple, you have Python functions,
you already wrote them,
you presumably already even have the script
and you just want to sprinkle in some prefects
so that you get some observability into it.
And then if you wanna start to do more and more things,
you might have to write more and more code,
but it's appropriate for the activity
that you're trying to achieve.
And so yeah, we try to be really simple.
We like it when people get the feeling
that this is a toy package that you play around that just
has these heavy duty impacts.
And so yeah, tasks are the smallest unit of work
that we can look at.
Tasks can do things like retry.
They can cache.
They have well-defined inputs and outputs.
Flows are containers for managing dependencies of tasks.
They also have well-defined inputs and outputs,
also have their own states,
but flows are the things that can be scheduled
and triggered via API,
and tasks are kind of just the smaller,
more granular units of orchestration
within those workflows.
- Nice, and so the way that this looks is,
it looks just like a function,
and you kind of just call it
with the arguments or whatever.
And then you put a task decorator on there,
which is pretty interesting.
And that's where the retry thing can be.
- Exactly.
- Then you also have a context manager,
which I think is a nice pattern.
So you have a context manager to create the flow
and then you basically simulate doing all the work
with an abstract parameter
and then you kind of set it off, right?
- So that is true in 1.0.
However, what we found-
- Something new is coming, okay.
- Yeah, this is important.
That context manager, all that code runs,
like you called out, and so it compiles this,
you know, DAG, that's everyone, directed acyclic graph.
What we realized in talking to a lot of our users on 1.0
is that confronting the DAG,
'cause sometimes people would write their own Python code
that wasn't prefect in that context manager,
and it would actually run, it wouldn't be deferred,
and they would get confused,
and they're like, "Why do I have to care about this?"
And we started to realize that this DAG model really
came most likely out of the constraints of YAML,
flat file formats.
And they were mirrored in all the different tools that
were built on top of that.
And then all of a sudden, everyone's talking about DAGs.
And the data engineer, when they're
writing a script to move data around,
should focus on the script.
They shouldn't focus on this abstract programming
concept of can't do control flow, essentially,
without really thinking deeply about it.
And so in 2.0, we removed this context manager.
Flows are also now specified via decorator.
So the deferred computation is just function definition.
And now we will discover the tasks at runtime
and you can implement native Python logic in your flows.
And that's totally fine by us.
So it just unlocks the expressiveness
of what you can write in Prefect really natively.
- That's awesome.
So you can have like loops or if statements
or whatever you wanna write standard.
- Oh yeah, while statements even, yeah.
You can have flows that change structure
from run to run, all of it.
- Okay.
Yeah, that's really neat.
So the thing that strikes me here is,
you kind of write regular Python code
and you put a decorator or two on it
and it just works in a different but similar way.
And that's a little bit of that
negative engineering influence as well.
It's like, how do I take normal stuff
without too much work and make it
more general for pipelines.
- Exactly, and we call it workflows as code
instead of code as workflows.
Or sorry, code as workflows,
because you have the code, it is the workflow,
and now you just want us to care about it,
and so we should be minimally invasive when we do that.
Because the second you have to refactor
your code significantly, you're back in negative engineering
because you have to think about the consequences
of the refactor and everything else.
So we want to avoid that as much as humanly possible,
or you still have to do a little bit, but.
Yeah, a couple of things that I saw that stood out to me,
checking out your API here that was interesting.
One was I can have async methods
and async execution of these things.
So async and await style,
async def methods and await operations.
You want to talk about that support?
- Yeah, so if you actually go to orion-docs.prefect.io,
that's where a lot of our 2.0 docs are currently located
while we're still in beta,
but they will of course, and then hyphen docs.
- Yeah, so this Async work. - Yeah, this is probably
where it's not, yeah.
- Yeah, big shout out to a Prefect Engineer,
Michael Adkins, who really took a lot of time
to dig into the guts of Async.
And he set it up so that you can do crazy things.
You can have synchronously defined flows
with asynchronous tasks, and our engine, the executor,
will manage it all for you, just to make sure
that they're running in the right event loops and things.
- Like, oh, we gotta create a loop
and just run this in a wait, 'cause internally,
it's synchronized or something like that, right?
- Exactly, exactly.
And so it's really slick and it gives at least users
who know how to write async code
kind of this native feeling of parallelism.
It's not, we all know it's not quite parallelism,
but it gives you at least that feeling,
especially when you're doing a modern data stack,
if it's all API driven, you've got a lot of network I/O.
- It's talking to databases, it's talking to file I/O,
it's talking to external APIs,
like all of those are perfectly scalable.
- Exactly, exactly.
- Yeah, cool.
So you can have, you know, @task,
say I'm just gonna do an async def some function.
The example you have in your docs,
your Orion docs is using HTTPX async clients
to go talk to the GitHub stuff.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, here you also have,
here's your @flow decorator, right, for this thing.
- Yep.
And another thing too that we did that I'm really proud of
that I've already started to see kind of be
one of the ways people onboard in a prefect
is previously with the API,
you had to pre-register your flow
and tell the API this thing exists, get ready for it.
And then runs had to get created server side
before they could run client side.
With the new model, we set everything up
and all of this was this like deep study and bookkeeping.
Like how can we create stable indices
or stable identifiers for things that,
we can identify across processes and runs.
And so in the new model, you can take this flow.
And if you are just pointing to our cloud API,
you can call it as a function interactively,
and it will still communicate with cloud API
just as if it was a deployed workflow.
And so what that means though,
sorry, just going back to the incremental adoption story
is you can use cron,
and then you can just put one line of code
on your main function at flow,
keep cron running with that Python script,
and you've immediately gotten a really pretty
kind of record of all of the jobs that Kron's running.
And if it fails, you'll get the failure alerts
and everything else and Kron's still your scheduler,
which is totally fine by us.
- Sure, oh, that's interesting.
- Yeah, and then, you know, at some point,
you wanna start to see into the future,
and that's when you have to use our scheduler
instead of Kron, but you know,
but once again, incremental adoption.
- Yeah, the API here is pretty wild.
You're exploding a list,
get a list comprehension of calls to the task
to an async I/O gather.
Yeah, that's a pretty intense line right there.
But I like it.
Not intense in the way that it's like,
oh my gosh, what is this insanity?
But it's a lot better.
- Yeah, it's doing a lot though, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah.
You know, there's the joke T-shirt maybe you've seen it.
It says, "I learned Python, it was a great weekend."
Right, like that's true for like variables
and loops and functions,
but like then you see stuff like, oh wait.
- Yeah, there's more patterns here.
- Might be more than a weekend, give me a moment.
No, this is really cool, I really like this new API.
So when's 2.0 a thing?
When is it released?
- Our planned release date, or I shouldn't say date,
but just like target, you can expect it some,
one of the weeks or something around it in July 1st.
But we are still releasing.
So if anyone out there is intrigued by this,
especially if you're completely new to Prefect,
I definitely encourage you to just start
with one of our beta 2.0 releases.
They're way slicker, way easier to get your head around,
more interesting, and there's still like,
everything's working, we just,
there's some critical paths that we haven't
fully released yet that we wanna make sure are there
and tested heavily before we go into GA.
- Right, but if what's there works for people,
that they could use it?
- Oh yeah, should definitely work.
If you run into weird bugs like that, let us know.
- Yeah, how does it plug into like the cloud visibility
layer and all that is if I run some one and want some two,
is it gonna go crazy or is it?
- No, so they both will be configured
to talk to the right API.
And so you won't be able to see them in the same place.
So that's, you know, unfortunate if you will,
but you can definitely run them side by side.
I mean, the environments aren't compatible,
so you'll have to have different Python environments
running them in. But yeah, but otherwise, yeah, I mean, I think some of our 1.0 clients are starting
to... pip install prefect is equal equal one something or equal equal two or something along
those lines, right? You'd like need different libraries. Yeah. So if you just did pip install
prefect right now, you'd get a official 1.0 release. I don't remember the number. So you'll
have to make sure that you allow for pre-release in your pip command. So either I think if you
you just specify it, equals equals 2.0.
I think we're at like B3 right now,
then you'll get it.
But yeah, you have to explicitly call it out
since it's not, since it's still on beta.
- I always like going to pypi.org.
It just, like it's 375,000.
- I know, it's an amazing.
- Yeah, so one, one, two, one is the current one,
but in here, yeah, you're 2.0 beta three.
And we are planning to cut another release later this week.
So you can expect before.
- Probably it'll be before by the time people
get around to hearing this and I get around to it.
- Yeah, that's true.
- So on, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But still really cool.
So basically your advice to people who are like,
hey, this sounds interesting, I wanna check it out.
Like just start with two.
- Yeah, I'd say just start with two.
It's working, easier to grok,
and I think is more powerful and more flexible
for different use cases,
especially if you're thinking outside of data.
- Sure.
So when I hear people talk about data engineering,
you know, if you go into that world,
you see all these amazing tools that people have built
that look like, wow, these are really amazing.
And to me, they feel quite similar,
like Prefect and, you know, friends.
It feels real similar to the web frameworks, right?
Like Flask or Django, you know, like, okay.
So for example, what I mean by that is in Flask,
all I have to do is I have to say,
here's a function that goes to this URL
and I just write the code and return a dictionary
or something like that.
I don't have to think about headers, cookies, connect,
you know, like stay connected header, HTTP to traffic.
Like I just do the little bit
and it just, it puts it all together for me.
And in the data engineering world,
there's a bunch of stuff like that,
that I feel many people are wholly unaware of probably.
- Yeah, there is an explosion of tooling
in data engineering right now
and also in kind of the adjacent analytics world.
I think this kind of goes back to what I was saying
about how we kind of crystallize this concept
of negative engineering.
And it's just important.
I think all of these tools come
from some very real use case, right?
And I think it's just important to figure out,
like the way I talk to people about this stuff
is you shouldn't really pick a tool just on its current feature set.
You should pick it on its vision, as well as whether it works for you today,
because you're going to change a lot,
and you want to make sure that the tool is changing with you,
because these tools, especially the Explosion of Startups,
were all changing quite quickly,
and you want to make sure that we're changing in an aligned way,
and having that fleshed out vision is important.
And if it's just a tool that seems cool,
but like, "What exactly is this doing for me?"
Like precisely, if you can't really articulate that,
then, you know, that's not to say you shouldn't keep using it
or something, but just that's always my exercise
that I do with new tools.
- Yeah, when it's something as fundamental as this,
you kind of have to think about,
I'm gonna live with this for a while.
Do I wanna have this as my roommate
when I come to work, sort of, right?
- Do I wanna debug this?
Do I wanna exactly extend it?
You know, you're definitely gonna do something weird with it.
We've all done weird things with every tool we've used.
- Oh yeah, absolutely.
- All right, so my question to you about this sort of
like parallel to Flask and the web frameworks
and various other things,
this is solving a lot of negative engineering problems
for data scientists and data engineers.
What do you see, where do you see maybe people like me
who mostly do APIs and web apps and things along those lines
like where should I be using stuff like this?
And where do you see this solving problems
for people who don't traditionally put on
the data science, data engineering hat?
- So there's two places that I think are relevant.
I think the first is just really kind of tactical,
just tracking of background work,
tracking of background tasks, right?
Like Celery is a popular example for something like this.
Prefect can-
- Yeah, let me give you an example.
So in my world, I might hit a button
and have to send out thousands of emails
because of that, right?
And then maybe based on that, it might,
if it bounces, take them out of the email list
or whatever, right?
- Exactly, you wanna record the fact,
it's a perfect example.
So just anything like that for a background task.
And that's one of the things too,
that we're gonna try to make even simpler
because we have focused a little bit on the data space
and the very easy changes we can make to kind of extend that.
And then the second thing,
and this is the way I always kind of like
to think about GreefFact,
it's one way you can consider everything I've been saying
is we're kind of like the SRE toolkit
at the business logic layer.
And it's something that kind of everybody could just use.
Just that single pane of glass,
you get alerts, you get notifications,
you can collaborate with people,
and it's just kind of all right there for you.
And at the end of the day,
like, you know, you don't really have to manage the code
that much if you're just using the UI.
And so I think that's how we can expand
by just kind of giving people that value.
You want to look at the things that are happening.
You want to see a place where all of your systems
are just right there,
and it's at the business logic layer.
You're not looking at CPU and memory all the time,
although you could display that if you wanted to.
- So how about this as an example?
I create an e-commerce site and I want to track,
I just want visibility into people buying stuff.
What's working, what's failing, what's the rate,
the bosses, I need something on the web
that I can look at this and watch it get reported.
- Exactly, and the key thing here, right,
that you said is like puts it in prefix camp
and not in say, Datadogs camp,
is you wanna track the user button click, for example,
like some business logic thing.
Whereas something like Datadog is an SRE
or observability tool that's gonna tell you
your API throughput.
Prefect isn't trying to do negative engineering
for your raw infrastructure,
it's trying to do it for your business logic.
- Got it.
Okay, yeah, very interesting.
So Prefect, open source.
If I want, I can just take it and do my own thing, right?
- Oh yeah, go for it.
It is Apache 2.0 licensed as of maybe a month ago.
So before we had a few different licenses floating around
but now we're all in, all Apache 2.0.
- Okay, give me the elevator pitch on Apache 2.0.
Like what does that mean I can do, sort of?
- It means you can do quite literally anything
as long as you don't violate trademarks, essentially.
And so, you know, don't violate the logo
and stuff like that.
- Yeah, exactly, it's very, very generous.
You don't have to check with us or anything like that.
- Sure, okay, excellent.
Yeah, you guys are doing a lot of stuff,
not just with Prefect,
but with other projects out there as well, right?
- Yeah, we are.
We really, kind of like I said at the beginning,
tried to instill this kind of open source ethos
that, even at the business layer,
like we're trying really hard to genuinely deliver value,
right, and that includes to our customers and users,
but also to just the broader ecosystem
that we find ourselves in, which is exploding right now.
And so we have a lot of different efforts that we--
yeah, I can definitely go through and list them
all, like ways we try to--
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, give us a little bit.
So we do a few different things.
So one thing that we do is we will send pizza
to basically any conference or meetup talk that
has a talk featuring Prefect.
So you just have to submit a quick application.
will probably reach out to you.
And then, you know, that's pretty much it there.
If you are a Prefect Engineer,
we have kind of this like advocacy program.
And if you get involved with that,
we've sent people to conferences before
that are not Prefect employees.
So that's another thing that we try to give back.
More concretely on the business side,
we, every engineering team at Prefect,
so right now there are five kind of distinct teams.
They each get a $10,000 annual budget
to sponsor any and all open source projects
or just maintainers directly that they think are impactful,
maybe for their work or maybe for our ecosystem.
And so some of them, just to give you an example,
one of the ones that kind of kicked this whole thing off
was we sponsor MKDocs Material Theme,
just really slick theming.
And so that was the first one.
We also sponsor a lot of Vue projects
and we're gonna be expanding this to like FastAPI
and some other ones that we just have to dot our I's
and everything and cross our T's.
And then, so this is kind of an escalating rate intensity.
And kind of the last thing is we've actually,
pretty much the company has gotten into investing
in certain open source tools that we think are very
compatible with some of the things we want to do.
And so the big one, the headline one here is Textualize.
So Will, the author of, exactly,
I always am afraid to say this last thing
because I'm afraid I'm going to say it wrong.
So he's the author of Rich and Textual.
And as everyone knows now, it's all out there.
So he's building the service Textualize
for hosting these text-based terminal applications
and distributing them through the web.
So in kind of an interesting sense,
it's like spiritually similar to the hybrid model, right?
You can kind of run one of these agents
and we've always wanted to expose richer interactions
with Prefect agents running in your infrastructure
through our UI.
And when we talked to Will, I was like, "Oh, this is it. This is perfect."
And it's got all the right theming differences.
You'll be able to tell this is something you wrote.
It's very text-driven compared to our more branded assets lurking around the UI.
And so, yeah, we invested in his company.
Awesome.
I'm really glad to hear that.
I'm also really glad for Rich that he's got that going.
He's been making such progress.
Oh, yeah. He gets to the top of my head every other day.
I feel so bad.
I'm very happy for Will,
and he's been doing so much with Rich.
My brother's named Rich, it's a problem.
So, but you go and I'm finding so many of these projects,
I'm like, oh, this is really interesting,
especially for our Python Bytes podcast,
we're just covering packages
and things that are interesting that week.
And more often than not, you're like,
that's got a really cool UI.
Oh, I see in the dependency,
requirements.txt or pyproject.toml,
and Rich is at the heart of making that look good, so.
So yeah, we use it.
It is great.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It totally is.
So one of the final things I want to talk to you about
is creating a business around open source
with this very permissible model that you're giving away.
And I think it's super admirable.
I know there's other companies doing it
to various degrees and to various degrees of success.
You know, like MongoDB comes to mind, for example,
and, you know, Red Hat and stuff.
But all these examples that I see are just like, fantastic.
Look at what you guys are doing.
I mean, you're investing in other open source projects
by having a successful business
with this open source core engine as the core.
And so I just wanted to give you a chance
to talk about the business model,
maybe riff on that a bit,
give people advice out there who are doing their own thing.
Like another one that comes to mind is you guys do a lot with Dask and like Coiled is
now sort of in a similar position with Dask and hosting Dask as a service sort of.
Right.
Yeah.
And we're partners with Coiled too.
So we keep up to date on our integrations there.
So yeah, our business model for cloud and it's, you know, unsurprisingly, we're going
to get some slight changes, but like spiritually they're very similar.
So first and foremost, we really want to make sure, especially like the hobbyists, the open
source projects out there, you can come in and use the system to actually achieve powerful
use cases for free. And so one of the ways that we came up with our free tier volume,
which is 20,000 free task runs a month, is we asked ourselves for just a very bare bones
Airflow deployment running, like how many tasks would you turn through a month? And
And you could run a business's ETL processes off of that volume.
And so that's kind of roughly where we pick this number.
So we do think that this satisfies real business need.
And then the reason that you would move out of it would be for pretty standard reasons.
You want to unlock more scale.
So then you talk to us.
You want to add more users because you're capped on users.
And maybe even you want more teams.
So if you're an actual enterprise, you're presumably going to have some more permission
structures that you need to grapple with.
And so that's when our enterprise tier comes in,
SSO integrations, all of that fun stuff.
And kind of, this isn't really gonna change
in spirit for 2.0, it's gonna be pretty similar.
There's gonna be some sort of throughput metric,
maybe it's task runs, maybe it's storage,
something else that, you know, a lot of it's free.
And then you wanna add more users, more workspaces,
you start to talk to us and then kind of it grows.
You know, if you start to have really big performance needs
or you have requirements for data locality
and things like that,
like we start to talk, you know, enterprise plans.
So we tried to align it.
And one of the things too,
that was an insight for me to really think about
in the early days was like business models,
you're not selling the code you write.
And that's why open source, you know, works.
You're, there's some value that you're providing
and you have to find what that is.
And like for us, it's kind of almost like funny
having to host and maintain an API locally
is negative engineering.
And so that's not what you're trying to do.
You're trying to schedule jobs.
And so kind of migrating up to cloud
is tends to be a natural thing,
unless you've got the resources to manage it
and scale it out, which is also perfectly fine.
- Well, and the thing is,
there's a lot of expertise in running systems like this.
- Yeah, there really is.
Yeah, and the database too,
you want it to be scalable and yeah.
- Yeah, so I think there's a lot of value.
I think it makes perfect sense.
like give you the core for free and you can run it
and you can maintain it, it can be your baby
or it can be kind of hands off and we'll take care of it.
Right, like you said, authentication
and all that kind of stuff.
- Yeah, and we have a really active,
like a crazy active Slack community.
So, you know, if you're doing that yourself
and self hosting, they can go ask there
and I'm sure you're gonna get a lot of responses.
I think there's 16,000 people,
something like that in there right now.
- Wow, okay. - I mean, it's active.
Like, messages pretty much, you know,
flying by pretty regularly.
And then, oh, our discourse as well is up and coming.
- Yeah, I think it's worth maybe just highlighting.
You guys have almost 9,000 stars on GitHub,
which is, that's quite far up there.
That's pretty awesome.
- Yeah. - So, yeah,
that's, y'all must be proud.
- Yeah, we, you know, it's always fun
when you're open source project.
We reached the number one trending repo on GitHub one time.
This was maybe two years ago.
- Oh, wow.
- We were, yeah.
We had a random happy hour that night
just to celebrate that it was fun.
(laughing)
- How long has it been out?
When did you start it?
- So let's see.
The Prefect, the company is four years old
and I believe we open sourced,
I wanna say in December of 2018.
So the core at least has been out for a while.
And then cloud was maybe six months later
when the first version of cloud got out.
- Cool.
Yeah, so not brand new, but not super old.
- Yeah, battle tested,
but definitely still got a lot to build.
- Yeah, for sure.
Did you guys build it on Python 3 only?
- Yeah, Python 3 only.
Yeah, we tried to just build for the future, right?
- Yeah.
- I have the same philosophy.
(laughing)
You end up in a place with a lot of negative engineering
if you try to support too much, too far back, I would say.
Yeah, for the community, you got the Slack
and that's pretty awesome.
You got the discourse.
Then you also have Club 42.
And if people just go to your website
and they go to community, they'll see this.
You'll see the I want a pizza if you've got a user group.
But I'm guessing this has to do something
with Hitchhiker's Guide.
What's the story with this Club 42 thing?
- Yeah, so Hitchhiker's Guide definitely is a theme for us.
Everyone gets a free copy when you join.
Club 42 is our application only, so you can apply.
It's not invite only.
Set, it's a private group of kind of
external advocates of Prefect.
So people who just really want to get early access
to things, who have proven themselves to be
positive forces in our community, which to be clear,
doesn't mean that they're necessarily,
like some of them are technical experts,
but you don't necessarily have to be.
The point is just that you kind of help our community
succeed in whatever way that makes sense.
Just keep it healthy.
- Yeah, yeah, that's fantastic.
- Yeah, we run like special events with them
and they get early access to everything.
They were the first people that got cloud 2.0 access.
- I think that's really valuable.
I think more companies should be doing it.
I know MongoDB did that for a while.
I don't, I think they stopped.
You know, Microsoft has Microsoft MVPs
and I'm pretty sure Docker has something similar,
but yeah, it's a cool idea.
I'm glad you guys are doing it.
- Yeah, it's really fun.
And just to kind of get, right,
you get a bunch of people all caring about one thing
kind of together and interesting conversations
always happen.
- For sure.
All right, we're getting short on our time here, Chris,
but I guess one more thing I can imagine,
I know a lot of people who are working for amazing companies
are starting to reevaluate the amazingness of it.
now that they've got to go back to the office
or like the rules have changed
and then they've changed again
and they may be thinking of other positions.
What's the hiring situation?
You guys have open positions to work on this fun stuff?
- We do have open positions.
We're fully remote, so no worries on that.
Although we do have plenty of opportunities
for meeting people in person as well, optionally.
So we have kind of these hubs that people can apply to
and they'll show up like 20 people at a time
and have like a mini internal conference.
Now we're having our first full company offsite
later in July, it's gonna be really fun.
But anyways, yes, we have open roles, highly encouraged.
If you don't, so right now, the biggest roles on my mind
are kind of more in the platform space.
So SRE style roles, platform engineer roles.
And so if that appeals to you
or you have any experience there, let us know.
And if you don't see a role on our website
that maybe fits you, don't be shy about reaching out
'cause sometimes these things take a long time
as formally should keep a conversation going.
- Sure, so I have this special power,
it doesn't match one of your three listings,
but I bet it could help somehow, right?
- Exactly, exactly.
I mean, you know, it happens, it happens.
It's happened to Prefect before, so yeah.
My email is chris@prefect.io,
so you can feel free to just email me.
- Yeah, fantastic, that's great.
All right, I think that might be
where we gotta leave it for data engineering and Prefect,
but very, very interesting.
But before you get out of here,
you got to answer the final two questions.
If you're going to write some Python code these days,
what editor are you pulling out?
- Oh, put me on the spot.
I'm still a Vim user.
I, you know, I'm a platform survivalist.
If I find myself in the corners of an old system,
I want to be, I want to feel powerful.
And so Vim is where I'm at. - For sure.
I think there's still a ton of people who are on the Vim
and the Emacs, I mean, they can't talk to each other.
They don't get along or anything, but.
- Right, right.
(laughing)
- I started out programming, doing Emacs
on Silicon Graphics machines.
- Wait, so what's your now editor choice?
- Right now, these days, I'm on PyCharm.
- Okay, that's a good choice.
PyCharm and VS Code seem very--
- Yeah, I use VS Code as well for small little things.
And if I'm like, here's my big project,
then PyCharm is the choice, yeah.
And then, notable PyPI package,
I mean, Pippinstall Prefect is one of them,
but like some library that you've seen
that you're like, "Oh, this thing is amazing.
"I really should tell the world about it."
- Rich in textual, for sure.
- Oh yeah.
- FastAPI, I think is amazing.
I really think that you can scale out
some pretty powerful web servers with that.
- It's really pretty amazing.
I was just doing that before we jumped on the call.
- Oh, nice, nice.
And then, we did mention it earlier,
Dask is a really powerful Python framework
for distributed computing.
Definitely easy to get started with
and really powerful as you scale.
Those are the ones that come to mind immediately.
- Cool, no, those are all fantastic.
All right, Chris, final call to action.
People are interested in Prefect.
What do you tell them?
What do they do?
- Definitely join our Slack and go to our GitHub.
That's where you'll really be able to immediately
kind of get involved in the action,
figure out what's going on,
just ask around for best practices,
how to get started, get some project ideas,
whatever the case may be.
- Yeah, and you have a nice tutorial,
but maybe what you would recommend,
Orion docs, orion-docs.prefect.io,
do you like the tutorial to follow along for now?
- Yes, yes, I would definitely recommend Orion Docs
to get started.
And we'll slowly start making these more discoverable
over the coming weeks.
- Cool, I'll put it in the share notes
so people can get to it.
- Awesome.
- Awesome, all right, well,
it's really great to chat with you.
Thanks for being here.
- Yeah, thank you so much, Michael.
This was really fun.
- Yeah, it sure was, bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]